Hey there and welcome to Soul Church.
Our prayer is that this message encourages you wherever you may be in life.
We've been hearing so many stories about what God is doing in people's lives and we'd love to hear yours.
So take a second and send your story to stories at soulchurch.com.
Thanks again for joining us today and we hope that you enjoy the message.
God bless.
There we go.
How good is it to see some of the one the characters?
and it's even better to see so many unfamiliar faces in church today, and obviously a lot of familiar ones, and we're wishing you all a merry Christmas.
Now, who loves the Christmas feeling?
Give me a wave you love the Christmas feeling, getting the tree up.
Where's all of our November tree people?
Come on, there's nothing to be ashamed about.
If your tree goes up in November, give us a wave.
October.
Okay, a little prayer session for you guys after the service.
Any people just don't like taking the tree down, so you don't bother.
Okay, I know where you are.
Anyone not finished their Christmas shopping yet, be honest.
Not even Amazon can save you tonight.
I love the Christmas feeling, putting the slippers on, being around the family, tub of celebration, cinnamon candles burning,
presence under the tree, and of course, the dad jokes.
Dad, can I help you with one?
All right, listen carefully.
You've got to listen to this one.
But a guy brought his wife a beautiful diamond ring for Christmas.
After hearing about this extravagant gift, a friend of his said, I thought she wanted one of those new sporty four-wheel drive cars.
She did, he replied,
But where was I going to find a fake jeep?
Yes, the TC boys enjoyed that.
I enjoyed it too.
Often, my wife says to me, she goes, I didn't get that joke.
I said, well, I'll talk to you later.
Often we talk about Christmas in terms of a feeling.
But you know, Christmas isn't just a feeling.
It's more than that.
Christmas is actually a decision.
We're going to dive dive into the nativity story.
And we're going to look at a barely unknown character in the story.
Often when we think about Christmas, we think of Mary and Joseph.
We think of the wise men, the shepherds.
But there's someone in the story that I've never spoken about much.
I've never referenced him.
And I want to draw attention to a relatively insignificant, yet significant character in the story.
Just to familiarizes again with the Christmas story, the Virgin Mary and Joseph are traveling to Bethlehem because Roma, the Roman emperors Caesar Augustus has ordered a census requiring everyone to return to their ancestral hometown to register for taxation.
Don't you just love talking about taxes even in church?
Joseph had to go to Bethlehem and marry his pregnant wife travels with him.
And in Luke chapter two,
It says the time came for her child to be born and she gave birth to her firstborn son.
She wrapped him in swaddling clothes and laid him in a manger because there was no room for him at the inn.
I want to just focus on that one line this afternoon.
Just for the next couple of hours, we're just going to focus on that one line.
There was no room for him at the inn.
The arrival of the greatest miracle in human history was standing at the door at that inn or that hospital that evening, the Messiah, the one that had been prophesied about 700 years ago, God and skin was about to arrive.
And Mary and Joseph expected, like you should, to have their baby in a safe place, in a warm place, and they knocked on the door
And somebody said, and we're assuming it, there was an innkeeper who says, I'm sorry, but there is no room for you at the inn.
Completely oblivious to what's happening.
I think, who knows that that's one of the most damning responses you could ever have as a pregnant mum, there is no room.
I mean, we had our first child, and you go to the North Genorich Hospital, you get to the doors, and they say, not tonight, there's no room.
but we do have a little shed out the back and just make it your own.
Who knows, that's not right.
Well, this is exactly what Mary and Joseph experienced.
Think of the innkeeper knew that night.
What was at stake?
Things could be very different.
If he only knew that letting Jesus in could have transformed his life and his future.
If he had let Jesus in that night, he would have been a key part of the story too.
Sometimes we can look at the innkeeper and I have over the years and think how could anyone not create a space for a pregnant mom to have a child, let alone to have the Savior of the world?
Yet in some ways we can all do the same.
Often in the hustle, the bustle, the busyness, the presence, all the things that happen this time of year, we can easily be guilty of saying there's no room actually for Jesus in this time.
Santa can become the main character, and by the way, I love Santa.
But Santa can become the main character of the story instead of the Savior.
What we get can become more important than what we give.
Exmas can replace Christmas.
We can move Christ out of Christmas.
There's no room for Christ anymore.
I was reading this morning that some of the major streets in the country, they've removed Christmas.
They've said there's no room for the Jesus factory in Christmas anymore because it's become so commercial.
But the message
This afternoon is to make room for Jesus this Christmas.
Maybe you're visiting back from the wonder and we really welcome you back.
Maybe you're popping in for the annual Christmas tradition.
Or maybe when you come to church, you feel Christmas.
Or maybe you're searching for truth right now in a world which seems so broken.
But it's amazing what happens when we make that decision
to allow room for Jesus.
I want to just share really quickly three things that happen when we make room for Jesus at Christmas and beyond.
Number one is this, you enjoy life more.
In Luke chapter two verse 10, the angel said to them, do not be afraid.
I bring you good news that will cause great joy for all the people.
Jesus brings life to your life.
He brings joy to your life.
You know, we've had some amazing overwhelming feedback about the wonder.
It was brilliant, wasn't it?
It was just, but one of the things which we hear more and more is why are you all so happy?
One guy said to me, he said, do you give your volunteers a little bit of drink before the shows?
Believe it or not, we don't.
Why did 500 volunteers show up for 13 shows?
They're not getting paid to serve the wonder.
Why were their children part of the wonder and the team?
They were actually crying at the end and said, we'd never want this to stop.
Because it was far more than just Rudolph or Sebastian or the Golden Boys.
It was the spirit of the wonder.
Some of you have asked that question.
I wonder why they're so happy on heart sees Lane at number 55.
I wonder why I walk in there and I feel different to walking around other places.
It's not good vibes at Soul Church.
It's simply that when you create space for Jesus, he fills you with what other things can't give you.
He fills you with joy.
He fills you with happiness.
He gives you what money can't buy.
He gives you what alcohol can't give you.
He gives you something you can't even put into words.
The shepherds were ordinary people, working people, busy people, tired people.
But when they encounter Jesus, says that they were overcome with joy.
You know, often when we think about happiness or joy, it comes from perfect circumstances.
If I just had more money or if I just had more time or if I just had a bigger car, I would be happier or more joyful.
But actually, joy doesn't actually have to come from perfect circumstances.
Joy comes from being in the presence of Jesus.
And those shepherds would have had many problems, lost sheep, sick sheep, depressed sheep.
You name it, those shepherds would have had problems.
But you know what?
When they made room for Jesus that night, the Bible says they were overwhelmed with joy.
Our theme for 2025 has been choose joy and it's been a challenging theme because you have to choose joy.
But choosing joy is very difficult if you don't have Jesus.
You see, when you choose Jesus, He gives you this gift of joy.
And he can actually give you the sense and feeling of happiness and joy even when the circumstances of life aren't good.
There's one thing I hear over and over that said this time of year into January and I've said it myself and see if you can relate to it.
But when Christmas is over and sadly the lights are switched off and the tree comes down, we look back and say this, I should have enjoyed it a little bit more.
Has anyone ever said that at Christmas?
I should have enjoyed it more.
We see we get so busy trying to feel Christmas, we can actually lose the very joy and the very meaning of Christmas, the thing we desire the most.
But joy, you see, is a decision.
It's a decision.
Christmas is a decision.
And the decision is to make room for Jesus.
Here's what happens when you make room for Jesus in your Christmas.
Number one, you enjoy life more.
Number two, others are impacted.
The innkeeper couldn't see it in front of him, a pregnant mum.
Who knows whenever there's a pregnant mum, there's a stressed out dad.
Okay, so he's not just a pregnant mum, there's a stressed out dad going, come on, there must be a bed.
I reckon there could have been some teenagers or some young adults.
He could have just moved on or put in one room.
He could have made a plan.
He couldn't see it.
Here's what happens when Jesus enters your life.
He fills you with joy, but do you know the second thing?
It actually impacts others.
I've seen so many people come into soul church and encounter Jesus.
And by the way, it's not the church that changed your life.
It's Jesus.
Church is just full of very ordinary people like me.
Okay.
There's no one special in this church.
The only person special is Jesus.
We can't change your life, but Jesus can't.
And when you invite Jesus to come into your heart and into your life, here's what happens.
He changes you, but then he impacts others.
It says, I bring you good news that will cause great joy.
It didn't just say for them, it says for all the people.
Right now, our world is in a lot of darkness.
Yet the light is knocking at the door and saying, would you make some room for me to come in?
And we all have to make that decision.
Jesus said, I am the light of the world, but then he went on to say, you are the light of the world.
So Jesus brings the light into our lives.
Why?
Not so we can keep it to ourselves so we can help others discover the light.
When we feed the poor, when we help the lonely this Christmas, what are we doing?
We are making room for Jesus.
You enjoy life more.
Others are impacted.
And finally, number three is this, the direction of your life changes forever.
I wonder what would have happened to the innkeeper if he'd have found room for Jesus that day.
You know, the innkeeper didn't make room and his name was never recorded and his name was never remembered.
The wise men, the shepherds, those who made room for Jesus, they are remembered.
And every person I have ever met who's encountered Jesus, their life has never been the same again.
Maybe you're looking for hope in the wrong places.
Maybe you've tried so many things that have let you down.
Jesus will never let you down.
One encounter with Jesus can change your life for eternity.
The light of Jesus isn't just for us, but the light of Jesus is for others, but this is the incredible thing.
The light of Jesus gives us direction.
The Bible isn't just a history book, isn't just 66 books.
You know what the Bible is?
It's actually a guide.
The Bible is a guide for us because in this dark world, as the world gets darker, I don't know about you, but sometimes I don't know what to do.
I don't know which direction to turn.
I don't know what to say.
It's a God gave us his son, but he also gave us his word, which is the Bible.
And every day when we read his word, it gives us direction for our lives, for our future.
Maybe you feel a little bit like I'm not quite sure which direction to go in 2026.
Do I do this?
Do I do that?
Do I go to college?
Do I go to uni?
Do I marry them?
I don't know the decisions you have to make.
All I know is this, that God has given us the greatest guide you could ever imagine.
It's his book.
It's his Bible.
As we hold it out, it's an instruction, but it also lights up the path for us to walk.
That's why so many people are coming to church, because we open this book, this sacred book, every Sunday, and we teach out of it.
We want to give you life principles to help your life move forward.
Because some of you life is difficult.
Some of you are struggling with anxiety and depression.
And some of you have had some really difficult days.
And as a church, we want to help you.
Our heart is to help you, but it begins by a decision to say, you know what?
I can't do this any longer on my own.
I need Jesus.
I need to make room for Jesus.
Sometimes to make room for something, you have to let something go.
Sometimes you've got to let some things
go out of your life.
Maybe there's some phone numbers that are pulling you back.
Maybe there's some people that are speaking negative things in your life.
And sometimes you've got to let things go so you can move forward.
And I don't know all of you in this room, hardly know any of you.
All I know is God does know you.
God loves you.
God has a plan for your life.
And if you would just allow Jesus some room in your life, I promise you these three things you will enjoy life more.
You'll impact the people around you.
and your life will find direction.
But Christmas is more than a feeling.
Christmas is a decision.
And it's a decision we all have to make to allow Jesus to come in to our hearts.
So I'm going to ask you all right now, just to close your eyes, we're going to pray.
And I'm going to give you an opportunity to make room for Jesus.
I know for some of you, it's been a really, really tough year.
Jesus just wants to shine his light, bring his peace,
Bring us strength.
For some of you, you never thought, you never dreamt that you'd even ever be sitting in a church.
You don't even know if you believe in anything.
I get that.
You do not have to believe in God even to attend Soul Church.
We know that God believes in you.
God loves you.
God wants to give you a new chapter, a new start in your life.
It wants to bring peace.
He wants to bring hope, wants to bring all the things that you've been looking for in every other place.
You can find it in Jesus, but it starts with a decision.
To say today, Jesus, I'm gonna make room for you.
If you're saying today, John, I wanna give Jesus an opportunity, set some space in my life.
That simply could look like I'm gonna come back to church when you're open again on January the 4th and maybe start a journey of discovery.
Maybe join the Alpha Course, which is a course to help people understand the reason for life, the meaning of life, the true purpose of life.
If you're saying today, John, I want to invite Jesus to come inside of my heart.
Because just like Mary and Joseph knocking on the door of the end, he's knocking on the door of your heart.
The question is, will you leave him outside or will you let him in?
If you allow him to come in, I promise you, he will transform the direction of your life and he will help you through the dark days that we live.
So I'm going to simply count the three of you say today, John, I'm going to make room for Jesus.
I'm going to invite him into my heart when I get to three.
Would you just slip up your hand all over this room?
So I'm going to say a prayer, but I would love to know who I'm praying for, those online watching.
I think this is a moment for you.
Say, I want to make room for Jesus all over this room on the floor, on the tear seats today.
I want to make room for Jesus.
One, two, three, just slip up your hand and say, I'm trying to make room for Jesus.
God bless you.
Beautiful.
Amazing.
We're making room for Jesus.
God bless you.
Right at the back, I can see you.
You can put your hands down and we're going to say this prayer out loud together.
Dear Lord Jesus, sins and failures.
I believe that you rose from the dead so that I could have a brand new life.
Please come into my heart and help me.
by the power of the Holy Spirit, to trust and to live for you.
Amen.
Yeah, let's congratulate everyone who said that prayer.
Pray that you sense Jesus, the presence of Jesus.
We want to give you a gift after we're going to be concluding the service in just a few moments.
And down here, this is my friend, Treco,
There's a little chapel area there and if you'd like to say, hey, I lifted up my hand.
We want to give you a Bible.
It's really the next step or out in the forest.
Our team will have Bibles.
Hey, if you want to have a conversation about what is the next step from here?
The next step to keep allowing space and room in your life of Jesus.
We'd love to help you as you make that decision.
I just want to pray for one more group of people.
I want to pray for for those who say, hey,
I just want to really receive peace at Christmas.
I know God, but really struggling to set on my mind, to set on my thoughts and so many distractions, so many disappointments in 2025, but I just really want God's peace to come and fill me.
Maybe, you know, I was speaking to someone today, this is John, I'm really not looking forward to Christmas because some of the family died, but Jesus can come into the middle of the mix.
He can come into the middle of the mess that you're facing and he just wants to bring peace.
I believe that God can turn around your situation.
If you just say, what I want you to do at the end of my prayer is just to say amen.
Is that okay?
You don't have to lift your hand up.
You don't have to do anything.
I'm just gonna say a simple prayer that God will bring peace into your home, into your family, into your heart, into your mind this Christmas.
And I believe that we can still have a happy Christmas despite all the unhappiness around us.
Do you believe that?
So Father God, we just pray right now for everyone who's unsettled,
Everyone who's struggling, maybe with anxiety, those who've had a really difficult year.
We just pray, Father, that you would fill them with your peace.
You would just go ahead of them in every situation.
Lord, we pray that there would be no conflict at home around the tables this year.
It would just be a time where Emmanuel would be with us afresh.
We thank you, Lord, for the promise that you never leave us and you never forsake us.
So I speak peace over our church community, over every family here today.
in your name, the name of Jesus.
Amen.
Thanks again for tuning in.
If you said yes to Jesus today by saying the Salvation Prayer, we'd love for you to email connections at soulchurch.com so we can talk to you a little bit more about this incredible decision you've just made.
And if at any point in the service, you felt moved to give towards any of our local or global initiatives, head to SoulChurch.com.
And don't forget to stay connected with us on Facebook, Instagram, and YouTube by searching at SoulChurchUK.
Take care and God bless.